Industry you will start looking at a few of the initialization blocks static initializer.
Instances like that and things like that.
So what does initialization blocks.
So the blocks are called pieces of code which run when an object is created or when a class is loaded
for the first time.
So these are not really constructors.
Contractors are also one of things which are called when object is created.
So this is additional to the constructor so additional to the constructors we have a few initialization
blocks which can be run when an object is created or a specific class is ordered.
So there are two kinds of initialization blocks as we discussed.
So they're static initializer and instance initialisms studding usually is the code that runs when a
class is loaded.
So this is the situation when a class is initially loaded to read a JVM wants to load up a class then
the static initializer will be called an instance in the sleazily something which would be called when
an object is created when a new object is created what is called a constructor.
So you should see that laisser are in addition to the constructors.
So let's look at the example of a static initialize.
So what we're doing in here is we have a static block.
So this is how you create a static initializer.
So I want when this class is loaded that this variable is initialized or something of that kind.
So I can put that logic in here.
So what would have is this is a static initializers system that are indolent static initializers.
And we are trying to print the value of count.
The important thing about a static initializer is again this is a class specific code.
So in classes with code you cannot use instance this week the built in.
It is a member variable that's the instance variable.
So you cannot say I use equal to 6 in here in static interfaces you can only refer to static things
so you can only use count and not I.
So what we are doing here is we are printing out static intranasal and we think congruent static initializer
is and printing.
And you can see here that I'm creating a few objects of that class and the output you'd see right now
is that static laser congruent static and Slezak is run is zero.
So basically the static initializer is run before any of these objects is created.
So this is run only when the class is first loaded.
So even though I'm creating three instances how many times does it run the parent only once and that's
when the class is first initialized.
So when the class is first loaded by the JVM that's when the static initialisms would be called and
you'd be able to only access static variables from the static insulators.
You can use that degradable and static methods as well.
What's an instance in chalets that so instances is that it's basically a block without the static keyword
in front of it.
So there is more that the key word here that this is an instance initializer you'd see that this instance
initializer runs every time.
So you'd see that I have a little bit of sense out in here out instances setting a specific value to
I and I'm adding a conditional accomplice 1.
So you can see that instance initialiser can do an instance of slavery's run it's one then it's two
then it's three.
The reason why count is getting incremented and the value is retained is because this is a static that's
a classic liberal radio.
But we are creating instance initializer in here as it says here an instance initializer that runs every
time an object is created and in an instance initializer.
This is object level thing.
So in an object level or instance level thing you can access both static where it wants an instance
variable so you'll be able to access count as well as you can access.
Which is instance radio.
The example which we used in this specific deal is the initialiser examples.
You can actually create this static log by just saying static and just like playing around with it and
remove the static and see what happens.
So you can play around with this as an exercise and I will see you in the next two ETEO.